# ShopEasy
Web application for organizing shopping lists

Do you waste a lot of time shopping for your household because your shopping list is long and unorganized? Have you tried to meticulously organize your shopping list but sometimes you are just too busy and can't get it done?  If you dread all the work that goes into planning your shopping trips or have come to dread shopping, ShopEasy is the application for you. I decided to create this app because I spend too much time organizing my shopping lists.  I had been creating shopping lists by hand, making separate lists for each store and grouping every item by category. However, I also wanted to start an inventory list to keep track of the items that I have already purchased in an attempt to reduce double purchasing.  The inventory would also serve as a list of frequently purchased items that I can easily refer to when making future shopping lists.  Doing all of the work by excel, printing out the lists, and updating the lists after each shopping trip became too time-consuming and eventually hard to keep up. Therefore, I decided to write a program that automates the process for me so that my shopping lists will always be ready when I have to shop.  I just enter some basic information about an item into the app and the app organizes my shopping list by stores and departments. It shows me an overview of all of the stores that carry the products I need so that I can easily determine the least number of stores I have to visit to get every items on my list.  Because the items are also organized by category, I can shop more efficiently by only visiting the departments that are necessary. Marking an item as purchased on the app automatically moves the item into the inventory list so that I do not have to update the inventory separately.  This app is modeled after my own personal organization style and shopping process, but once the app has been extensively field-tested, I expect to modify certain features and add new features to enhance the user's experience.    

The main page of Shopeasy takes you to the "Family Shopping List", a master shopping list, so that you can quickly scan through all of the items on your list and decide whether it is time to hit the stores.  All of the features of the web application are easily accessible from the navigation bar on the top of the page (the same navigation bar appears on all pages of the web application).  The links on the navigation bar provide several useful tools to increase your shopping efficiency.  First, the "Add a new item" link directs you to a form where you can enter relevant information about your item including the name of the item, a description for what you need, the category your item belongs, and the store/s where this item is available for purchase.  The next link, "Shopping List by Stores" displays a dropdown menu where you can access individuals shopping lists for each stores so that you don't have to sort through one long list to figure out what items to buy from that particular store.  The "Overview" option in this menu provides a summary table with a side by side comparison of all of the individual shopping lists of the stores on your list.  This allows you to easily determine which store has the most number of items on your shopping list.  After you have purchased an item on your list, simply click the "Purchased" button and the item will be moved into your "Inventory" page.  The "Inventory" page keeps track of what items you have on hand in your household.  On the "Inventory" page, you can simply click the "Restock" button when you run out of a frequently used item and that item will be added back to your shopping list.  The "Restock" button first takes you to a form where you can edit the details of your item in case your needs have changed.  There is also an "Edit" button for each item on your shopping lists that allows you to change the details of your item if you make a mistake or if your needs have changed. You can also delete the item by clicking the "Delete" button.  Some items on your shopping list may be one-time purchases but you may want to keep the details of the item in your records for future reference. Simply click the "Archive" button and the information will be stored in the "Archived Items" page.  Finally,  family members can log into the web application and add their personal requests.  Their usernames will automatically appear as the requester so you know who added each item.  Each user is able to navigate to their own shopping list page called "My Shopping List" to see which of their requested items have been purchased so that they don't have to constantly nag the shopper for an update. 

In the future, my goal is to expand this app to the Android and iOS platforms to allow the app to sync data across all the devices used by multiples shoppers in the household.  
